# Comparing-feature-extraction-methods-with-BioTrove-dataset
This repo covers a research project that compared different deep learning/machine learning methods for feature extraction in images. This project took place in the greater context of the ["clustering-biotrove"](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/biotrove-clustering/overview) challenge on Kaggle. This challenge involved a subset of the [BioTrove](https://baskargroup.github.io/BioTrove/) biodiversity dataset which in original form contains over 160 million images of living organisms with taxonomic information included. The subset simply contained 50k images and **only taxonomic family labels**. The challenge is to use unsupervised learning (no genus or species labels provided) to produce genus- and species-level clusters. See the sections on the full BioTrove dataset and the Clustering BioTrove Challenge section for more information on each respective topic. The general appraoch of my team, BioTrove_1, was to use a deep learning approach for feature/embedding extraction from the images which would then allow for clustering of the images into genus- and species-level groupings. My research question for this project was to compare **four** different feature extraction methods from models that I designed to determine which approach resulted in better-defined embeddings when visualized using UMAP for dimension-reductionality.

# Note on useage of AI: LLM's/ChatBots including ChatGPT, Gemini, and the Acanaconda Navigator, which uses open-source LLM models, were used throughout this project to debug code and structure certain sections. 

